How do you make sure that AI agents
aren't writing slop in your codebase?
How do you make sure that when you're
running 5, 15, 30 plus agents at a time
that they're not just creating technical
debt? That they're not just writing slop
to your codebase. Those are the
questions that I'm going to be answering
today in this video. If you don't think
this is possible, I would recommend you
read this article from Stripe talking
about how they use agents in production
in one of the most consequential coding
environments in the world right now. So,
these are the techniques that I use.
These are the techniques that other top
performing agentic engineers are using
and today I'm going to cover them in
depth. If you don't already know me, my
name is Jim West. I've been using LLM to
write production quality code for as
long as it's been possible. Everything
that I build, I build in public. So, if
you're interested in seeing what I'm
working on, seeing what anti-slop
patterns look like, as well as learning
more about Agentic Engineering, I would
highly recommend you go check out my
GitHub where I have all the resources
that you would need. So, let's talk
about the tools and techniques that go
into anti-slop. The very first mindset
shift that needs to happen is you have
to stop assuming that LLM code equals
SLO. If you still think that tools like
Claude Code just produce slop, that
their code will always be bad, you have
to clear that mindset and realize that
if LLMs are writing slop in your
codebase, that is an engineering problem
and not an LLM problem. The models are
capable enough to write highquality
code. And I'm going to show you why and
how. So before I dig much deeper into
this, let's talk about the number one
rule here. Um at least my personal
number one rule when it comes to agentic
engineering is never fix bad output. If
you get bad output from an agent, you
should diagnose that, reset the run, fix
the issue that caused an agent to write
bad code, and then rerun from scratch.
So don't worry about fixing technical
debt produced by an agent. If the agent
had bad results, scrap it and try again.
Let's dig into the tools used by top
agentic engineers to ensure that the
LLMs writing their code aren't producing
slop. First and foremost, we have hooks.
Hooks are incredibly important. They are
incredibly powerful. Hooks allow you to
create custom harnesses around your
agent as well as produce logging, stop
destructive changes before they happen.
They are the first layer of defense when
it comes to agentic engineering. Some
examples of hooks that I use are
pre-commit hooks which aren't even
running in cloud code or the agent
harness that I'm using when an agent
goes to commit their work. You know,
tests are run, linting is checked, so on
and so forth. That moves into quality
gates. When it comes to quality gates,
this is, I think, a shift that engineers
have to make in how they approach things
like linting and type-checking because
with LLMs, we can enforce the strictest
possible rules when it comes to linting
or type-checking as well as with test
passing. So personally in my code bases
I always run the strictest possible
linting as well as the strictest
possible type checking for LLMs. So when
they are making code they can ensure
that that code is up to project
standards. Additionally I always make
sure that every test in my codebase is
passing before it moves on to the next
agent or you know gets pushed to remote
or anything like that. Talking a bit
more about testing, I personally use an
anti-mocking testing philosophy. Sort of
the guiding principle is never mock,
which you can use for real. Um, and this
is super important because if you have
used LMS to write code, especially test,
you know that they love to mock things.
And often times the tests that they
write aren't even testing the actual
code. So I always make sure that this
philosophy of anti-mocking is baked into
every single agent that I have running
in my codebase. High coverage is
obviously something that's super
important. You want to make sure that
the code in your codebase is actually
tested. So I use a super high coverage
rate and then again 100% pass rate.
Every single test should pass in my
codebase before any more work can be
done. If I run into any failures or if
an agent writes a failing test, I fix
that immediately either within that
agent or um I will scrap the entire
agent run and try again from beginning.
The next tool that I use is
standardization. So this is making sure
that issues are all tracked in one
location. Agent learnings are all
getting stored in the same location so
you don't end up with 600 markdown files
across your entire project. You should
standardize where agents are doing their
work. What this looks like is work trees
isolation. Where are agents actually
doing their work and how is that being
standardized and checked? And then who
is reviewing the agent work? Do you have
other agents reviewing agent work? Is
everything being reviewed manually by
humans via PR? What does that look like
and how is that standardized in your
codebase? Per agent isolation is crucial
when it comes to running swarms and
multi-agent workflows. This essentially
stops any agents from overwriting each
other or stepping on each other's toes.
For me personally, what this looks like
is I'm always running agents within work
trees. Now, a guiding principle here is
that an isolated agent is a safe agent.
So making sure that an agent working on
your codebase isn't going to mess up
other agents working on your codebase.
This only becomes more and more
important when you have swarms of agents
or several different agents working in a
multi- aent chain on your codebase. The
final tool here is hard blocks. So what
should agents never be allowed to do?
What tools do you block? For example, I
always block get push in my projects
because I don't want agents pushing
things to remote that I haven't checked
and manually verified. Additionally,
what tools are you blocking? So, a scout
agent, for example, may not be allowed
to write any files. They should only be
allowed to read files and report back.
How do you force correct behavior with
agents? So, how do you make sure that an
agent that has a specific task is only
doing that task and if it gets
distracted or runs off on a tangent, how
do you make sure that uh that's caught
early and reset that agent? Hard blocks
ties very closely with hooks. These are
very closely related because hooks allow
you to establish hard blocks and sort of
have those as code. I want to be clear
here with the tools that this is not a
comprehensive list. Doesn't cover every
tool that is in your tool belt. These
are just the main ones that I personally
am using and other top performing
agentic engineers are using. Now let's
talk about some additional techniques
that you can use on top of the tools
that you already have access to to
ensure this anti-slot philosophy. First
and foremost, we have traceability. So
what agent made what changes, when were
those changes made, where were the
changes made. This is where things like
hooks become super important because you
can trace every single action that every
single agent has made. Task
decomposition is another tool that I use
heavily in all of my codebases. The way
to think about this is that a focused
agent is a correct agent. So I
personally try to oneshot everything. I
should only give the agent one prompt
and it should be able to work with that
one prompt all the way to completion
with whatever the task I g gave it was.
Indie Dev Dan came up with this really
great slogan. One agent, one task, one
prompt. Like I said, a focused agent is
a correct agent. So making sure that one
agent is only ever operating on one task
and ideally only ever given one prompt.
That is how you can place more and more
trust into your agents. When that
success rate with one agent, one task,
one prompt goes way up, you realize,
okay, I can place trust into these
agents because I have seen that they are
focused and successful. One of my
personal favorite techniques with
agentic engineering is this pit of
success idea. This is a long-standing
software engineering idea, but for
agents it becomes even more important
and there are some caveats on top of the
traditional pit of success. You have to
think that when you are writing code
with LLMs, the input tokens you're
passing in are essentially finetuning
that LLM. If you are passing in garbage
tokens, you're going to get garbage out.
You can think of this like a recursive
loop. So, as the agents write higher
quality code, new agents working on that
code are going to output higher quality
code. Next up, we have specs. So, specs
should leave no ambiguity to the agent.
You should not let agents infer anything
about what you are trying to do. It's
very important that your specs are
perfectly aligned with your vision. And
this is a process that takes time to
learn. It takes writing several specs to
make sure that okay, this vision that I
have in my head is perfectly outlined
here in this spec file. The more
detailed the spec file is, the better
the result is going to be for an agent
working on that spec file. So,
personally, I like to have my specs as
detailed as possible. You know, exact
line numbers, exact file names, code
snippets if it's relevant, everything
like that really goes into how
productive an agent is going to be. Next
up, we have multi-agent workflows or
swarms. And this looks like a series of
agents that are decomposing tasks, that
are reviewing each other's code, that
are writing detailed specs and building
out those specs. A very important thing
when it comes to multi-agent workflows
and swarms is that every step of the
way, every agent should pass those high
quality check before passing their work
off to the next agent. If a build agent
finishes work, before that work is
reviewed, we should ensure that the
tests are passing, that linting is
passing, that typeing is passing, so
that when the agent goes to review it,
we already know that all of those things
are good to go. And then that just moves
further up the chain. So by the time
code hits the coordinator agent, this
top level orchestration agent, you can
ensure that okay, every step of the way
we had quality checks and there is no
slop in that chain. Agent scope is a
massive factor and this relates to specs
and you know task decomposition etc.
This is just another way to think about
one agent, one task, one prompt. What
files should your agent be working on?
What is outside of the scope of this
agent? As well as how do we reduce
ambiguity for agents? So how do we make
sure that an agent knows this is the
only thing I should be working on? If I
run into problems over in this section
of the codebase, I shouldn't worry about
that. That should be left for another
agent. This is a very tricky thing to
do, but if you tie in all those tools
and techniques we've talked about so
far, this is going to make the agent
scope much much better. Finally, with
techniques, we have standardization once
again. So, agents should never surprise
you. The output name and agent should
not surprise you. Prompt structure, tool
usage, these things should all be
standardized in your codebase should be
standardized between agents. what
exactly the agents have access to and
how are they using it and how is that
standardized across different agents.
When it comes to things like swarms,
chain of command is super important. So
standardizing when the user needs to
come back into the loop, when do I need
to be notified as the developer um when
an agent runs into problems, that's
super important. And having those
decision points is vital to making sure
that you are not producing slop. This is
by no means a comprehensive list of the
tools and techniques available to
agentic engineers. I highly recommend
with all the clients that I work with
that this is worked out amongst your
team. This should not be something that
you are just adopting or letting cloud
code come up for you. You need to think
about what tools do I have in my
codebase? What techniques do I want my
team to follow and how are those
distilled into our agent workflows. If
you are interested in hearing more from
me and having conversations with me, I
would recommend checking out Promptra.
This is going to be the best line of
communication with me individually as
well as checking out the entire
community that we have here. It's a
really, really amazing community. It's
gotten a ton of growth over the past
month or so. So, I'm super excited about
Promptra. Additionally, if you're
interested in working with me, I will
link my consulting website down below.
You can go check that out and see if
there's any way that I can help you
personally. Thank you for watching this
video. I post weekly on Fridays as well
as throughout the week. Be sure to
subscribe, like, and leave a comment if
you have any questions about this or if
you have any other tool or techniques
that you are using in your code bases
because I'm always looking to learn more
about agentic engineering. So, thank you
so much for watching and I will see you
in the next